# Contributing Guidelines

The following are some simple Rules to follow to ensure that we are on the same page and contribute with as little pain as possible. A lot of this document will be inspired by [C4](https://rfc.zeromq.org/spec/42/) by Pieter Hintjens.

## 1\. Licensing and Ownership

This project uses a [GPLv3 LICENSE](https://github.com/voteflux/voting_app/blob/master/LICENSE) that includes some of the Apache 2.0 warranty disclaimer to protect our contributors; see [this discussion](https://github.com/voteflux/voting_app/issues/7). All contributions to the project source code ("patches") SHALL use the same license as the project. All patches are owned by their authors. Each Contributor SHALL be responsible for identifying themselves in the project Contributor list.

## 2\. Patch Requirements

A patch SHOULD be a minimal and accurate answer to exactly one identified and agreed problem. A patch SHOULD adhere to the [effective dart](https://dart.dev/guides/language/effective-dart) code style. A patch MUST adhere to the "Evolution of Public Contracts" guidelines defined below. A patch SHALL NOT include non-trivial code from other projects unless the Contributor is the original author of that code. A patch MUST compile cleanly and pass project self-tests on at least the principal target platform. A patch commit message MUST consist of a single short (less than 50 characters) line stating the problem ("Problem: ...") being solved, followed by a blank line and then the proposed solution ("Solution: ..."). A "Correct Patch" is one that satisfies the above requirements.

## 3\. Development Process

Change on the project SHALL be governed by the pattern of accurately identifying problems and applying minimal, accurate solutions to these problems. To request changes, a user SHOULD log an issue on the issue tracker and add appropriate, tags project, milestones and requested reviewers. The user or Contributor SHOULD write the issue by describing the problem they face or observe. The user or Contributor SHOULD seek consensus on the accuracy of their observation, and the value of solving the problem. Users SHALL NOT log feature requests, ideas, suggestions, or any solutions to problems that are not explicitly documented and provable. Thus, the release history of the project SHALL be a list of meaningful issues logged and solved. To work on an issue, a Contributor SHALL fork the project repository and then work on their forked repository or if access is granted, work on a self-made branch. To identify the patches that are being worked on, a contributors may make a pull request with [WIP] at the start of the pull request title. To submit a patch, a Contributor SHALL create a pull request back to the project. A Contributor SHALL NOT commit changes directly to the master branch. To discuss a patch, people MAY comment on the pull request, on the commit, or elsewhere. Maintainers SHOULD NOT merge their own patches except in exceptional cases, such as non-responsiveness from other Maintainers for an extended period (more than 1-2 days). Maintainers SHALL NOT make value judgements on correct patches. Maintainers SHALL merge correct patches from other Contributors rapidly. Maintainers MAY merge incorrect patches from other Contributors with the goals of (a) ending fruitless discussions, (b) capturing toxic patches in the historical record, (c) engaging with the Contributor on improving their patch quality. The user who created an issue SHOULD close the issue after checking the patch is successful. Any Contributor who has value judgements on a patch SHOULD express these via their own patches. Maintainers SHOULD close user issues that are left open without action for an uncomfortable period of time.

## 4\. Branches and Releases

The project SHALL have one branch ("master") that always holds the latest in-progress version and SHOULD always build. To make a stable release a Maintainer shall tag the repository. Stable releases SHALL always be released from the repository master.

## 5\. Evolution of Public Contracts

All Public Contracts (APIs or protocols) SHALL be documented. All Public Contracts SHOULD have space for extensibility and experimentation. A patch that modifies a stable Public Contract SHOULD not break existing applications unless there is overriding consensus on the value of doing this. A patch that introduces new features SHOULD do so using new names (a new contract). New contracts SHOULD be marked as "draft" until they are stable and used by real users. Old contracts SHOULD be deprecated in a systematic fashion by marking them as "deprecated" and replacing them with new contracts as needed. When sufficient time has passed, old deprecated contracts SHOULD be removed. Old names SHALL NOT be reused by new contracts.

## 6\. Project Administration

The project founders SHALL act as Administrators to manage the set of project Maintainers. The Administrators SHALL ensure their own succession over time by promoting the most effective Maintainers. A new Contributor who makes correct patches, who clearly understands the project goals, and the process SHOULD be invited to become a Maintainer. Administrators SHOULD remove Maintainers who are inactive for an extended period of time, or who repeatedly fail to apply this process accurately. Administrators SHOULD block or ban "bad actors" who cause stress and pain to others in the project. This should be done after public discussion, with a chance for all parties to speak. A bad actor is someone who repeatedly ignores the rules and culture of the project, who is needlessly argumentative or hostile, or who is offensive, and who is unable to self-correct their behaviour when asked to do so by others
